assignments/parallel-firewall: Add parallel firewall assignment (#121)
cs-pub-ro/operating-systems: content/assignments/parallel-firewall/README.md

# Parallel Firewall

## Objectives

- Learn how to design and implement parallel programs
- Get experienced at utilizing the POSIX threading API
- Learn how to convert a serial program into a parallel one

> ## Statement
> 
> A firewall is a program that checks network packets against a series of filters which provide a decision regarding dropping or allowing the packets to continue to the upper level in the TCP/IP stack.
> In the case of this project, instead of a network card, there will be a producer thread that buffers packets into a circular buffer, out of which consumer threads will take packets and process them in order to decide whether they advance to the upper levels of the stack.
> You will have to implement the circular buffer and the consumer threads in order to provide a log file with the firewall's decisions ordered by a timestamp.
> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Statement

A firewall is a program that checks network packets against a series of filters which provide a decision regarding dropping or allowing the packets to continue to their intended destination.

**In a real setup**, the network card will receive real packets (e.g. packets having Ethernet [1], IP [2] headers plus payload) from the network and will send them to the firewall for processing.
The firewall will decide if the packets are to be dropped or not and, if not, passes them further.

**In this project**, instead of real network packets, we'll deal with made up packets [3] consisting of a made up source (a number), a made up destination (also a number), a timestamp (also a number) and some payload.
And instead of the network card providing the packets, we'll have a **producer thread** creating these packets.

The created packets will be inserted into a circular buffer [4], out of which **consumer threads** (which implement the firewall logic) will take packets and process them in order to decide whether they advance to the destination.

The result of this processing is a log file in which the firewall will record the decision taken (PASS or DROP) for each packet, along with other information such as timestamp.

The purpose of this project is to:
 - implement the circular buffer, along with synchronization mechanisms for it to work in a multithreaded program
 - implement the consumer threads, which consume packets and process them
 - provide the log file containing the result of the packet processing

```

```

### Running the Linters

To run the linters, use the `make lint` command in the `tests/` directory:

```console
student@so:~/.../assignments/parallel-firewall/tests$ make lint
[...]
cd .. && checkpatch.pl -f checker/*.sh tests/*.sh
[...]
cd .. && cpplint --recursive src/ tests/ checker/
[...]
cd .. && shellcheck checker/*.sh tests/*.sh
```

Note that the linters have to be installed on your system: [`checkpatch.pl`](https://.com/torvalds/linux/blob/master/scripts/checkpatch.pl), [`cpplint`](https://github.com/cpplint/cpplint), [`shellcheck`](https://www.shellcheck.net/).
They also need to have certain configuration options.
It's easiest to run them in a Docker-based setup with everything configured.

### Fine-Grained Testing

Input tests cases are located in `tests/in/` and are generated by the checker.
The expected results are generated by the checker while running the serial implementation.
If you want to run a single test, use the below commands while in the `src/` directory:

```console
student@so:~/.../assignments/parallel-firewall/src$ ./firewall ../tests/in/test_<num_packets>.in <output_file> <number_of_consumers>
```

> Results provided by the serial and parallel implementation must be the same for the test to successfully pass.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Results provided by the serial and parallel implementation must be the same for the test to successfully pass.

### References

[1] https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Ethernet_frame
[2] https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/IPv4
[3] See `src/packet.h` for exact definition.
[3] https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Circular_buffer

```
